# CitiBike-Challenge

For this assignment, I am looking at 2022 data provided by CitiBike, and preparing a simple snapshot overview of the data to present to New York CitiBike.  The data comes to me in a raw format that required manipulation in order to properly format the available data for specific analysis.
For the analysis, I attempted to answer the follow questions:
1.	Today, what are the top 50 stations in the city for starting a journey? Based on data, why do you hypothesize these are the top locations?  Reviewing the map on CitiBikes Snapshot Where & Who, one can see the 50 most popular locations for staring a ride with CitiBike.  When looking at where these centers are, they are generally in close proximity to subway entrances, ferry terminals and bus stops. This makes sense, as we will see later that the popular times for ridership revolve around morning and evening commute times.
2.	Today, what are the top 50 stations in the city for ending a journey? Based on data, why? Continuing to look at the data, there is a lot of overlap between where rides end and where they start. This makes sense, again as we will see later the popular times for ridership are based on morning and evening commutes, so it logically makes sense that the same place you end your ride in the morning would be where you start your ride in the evening.
3.	Who is riding, are they members or casual one-off riders?  Again, on the CiciBikes Snapshot Where & Who we can view who is riding what type of CitiBike and quickly determine that those who pay for a CitiBike membership make up the majority of the rides for both Classic and Electric Bikes.  However, when we look and the Docked Bikes, which that usage is considerably lower than the other bike types, it is entirely made up of those who are considered casual riders, and do not pay for a CitiBike membership.
4.	What are the peak hours when bikes are used during the summer months?  When reviewing the charts in the CitiBike Snapshot When Dashboard, we can see that the peak hours for bike usage in the summer months is 8am, and then 5 and 6pm. This makes sense as it syncs up with commuters traveling to and from work.  There is also high usage mid-day (noon-4pm) and again after the work commute (7 and 8pm)
5.	What are the peak hours when bikes are used during the winter months?  For the winter months, the same usage holds true as the summer months, although, there are fewer rides by count, the time frames hold even as the count of ride decrease most likely due to the adverse weather conditions.
6.	Whare are the most and least popular months to use a CitiBike?  Again, reviewing the CitiBike Snapshot When Dashboard, we can see the summer months of July, August & September account for the largest ridership for CitiBike, August is the largest count with over 115,000 riders.  The winter months of December, January and February as expected have the least ridership with January coming in last with only 26,762 riders.
7.	Are there specifics days that are more popular than others?  In general, reviewing the Rides by Day chart in the dashboard, it appears that in general ridership is generally even throughout the month, with the exception of the 31st, as there are only 7 months with 31 days.

Lastly, in order to clean the data that was retrieved from CitiBike, I used pandas and numpy including examples from work I completed for earlier challenges to ensure that the data was in a format so that I could produce my chosen visuals in Tableau.  2 of the CSV files are will as the original source data files used for this are too large for GitHub, and I have hosted them on a Google Drive location which can be found here: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1sn-Kzi2jEcYt27FJBPjx4lqKlDIj0yEg?usp=drive_link
